The station of the cross presents, sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled The Feast of the Chair of St. Peter and Our Lady of Lords.
We're in you shall greatly rejoice, if now you must be for a little time made sorrowful in diverse temptations, that the trial of your faith much more precious than gold, which is tried by the fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor.
At the appearance of Jesus Christ our Lord, words from today's epistle from St. Peter's letter, in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
On this feast day of the chair of St. Peter, let's consider a few things about Lourdes, France, and the apparitions that took place there in 1858, as well as its connection to the papacy, and finally a few notes about the papacy itself, given that we have a conclave coming up upon us.
Okay, first, five days ago,
Our lady came to St. Bernadette for the third time and asked the little saint if she would come to the grotto for fifteen days in a row.
The little peasant virgin said yes.
Why fifteen days?
Well, fifteen for the fifteen decades or fifteen mysteries of the rosary.
Each of these days has some connection with the mystery of the rosary.
Clearly.
The first day is the mystery of the Annunciation where our Lady asked Bernadette to say yes to God, to bring about some greater glory for God in the good foreman.
On this day, the Lady moved a little further out of the niche toward Bernadette and spoke to her for the first time.
So I hope you see the connection.
It was a sort of Annunciation.
The same can be found for each of the days
and its corresponding mystery.
For example, yesterday, St. Bernadette was called before the imperial prosecutor detour and the chief priest Giacomé.
Well, she also had to speak to the Dean of Lords, Pei Hramal.
She had to give a sort of presentation of the events that were unfolding, and these meetings cast a certain shadow over her immediate future.
So we see the connection here to the presentation.
She was ordered by the city officials and her parents not to go back to the grotto.
This greatly sat in the saint, it was one of her sorrows, and she tried to obey.
The next day, February 22nd, today's feast to the chair of St. Peter, she attempted to obey the humans placed over her who were operating under human prudence.
Yet there was also God's plan and his holy mother to be accounted for as well.
Well, as Saint Bernadette was somewhat sorrowfully making her way back to school from the midday meal with her family, she struck a place in the street near the school in which she could not pass as much as she might try.
She called it a beam of air blocking her way
And then she found that she was almost irresistibly moved in the direction of the grotto and she began to run to the grotto.
She obeyed the summons of God.
A higher prudence was in effect.
Now there's a beautiful hymn for lords.
It begins, an angel from heaven led Bernadette's feet, where flows the deep torrent are lady to greet.
So there it is, an angel led Bernadette's feet.
But when our pure, little, innocent, visionary reached the grotto, our Lady was not there.
Today was the fifth joyful mystery, coinciding with the finding of Jesus in the temple.
It seems our Lady wanted Bernadette to have a share in her sorrows, and so she did not appear.
She asked Bernadette to come for the next 15 days, but never promised
that she would always be there herself.
She never said, I'll be there each day.
She said, would you please come for the next 15 days?
She also stated quite openly at the start that happiness would only be hers in the next life and not in this one.
can only imagine the consternation Bernadette must have experienced.
She wondered whether or not she herself had done something wrong, somehow that she had been displeasing to the beautiful lady with the blue girdle.
She wanted really to die rather than face the possibility of not seeing the lady again.
It seems our lady wanted her little daughter to fulfill those lines of the Stabbat Mater,
which states, make me feel as you have felt.
The little saint got a little share in the pain, the mother of God felt when her divine son was lost to her for three days.
And here we have an insight into that mystery, that mystery of the fifth joyful mystery of the Rosary.
Namely, how different people
Acting prudently and obediently or acting on different levels of prudence, namely human and divine, may end up doing different things such that miscommunications happen with no one being at fault.
No one can blame Bernadette for obeying the angel and being moved by God to go to the grotto.
No one can say that she did wrong.
And yet they were right to prevent her from going given all the facts that were going on in the city and in the church.
But surely there is even more to consider here.
Since this day is also the feast of the chair of St. Peter, our lady was indicating to the saint that even if she, the mother of God, was not visible to her, she and all the faithful on earth, nevertheless,
have a visible leader in the Holy Father of the Pope, the successor of St. Peter, who sits upon the chair in Rome.
Lord's is very much an anti-enlightenment apparition.
All through the 15 days and beyond, the rationalistic strongholds erected in Lourdes and France were falling, each one after the other.
Everyone that came up against the lady in the grotto failed.
They were crushed under her feet.
from the devil himself rising up in the river Gav to fight her, from the closest relatives of Bernadette to all the local government officials up to the Emperor and Louis Napoleon, as well as the clergy from the Dean of Lourdes to the Bishop of Tard.
Furthermore, miracles of all sorts would soon flow from the newly found spring at Lourdes,
all to dissipate the rationalistic cloud that had overshadowed the eldest daughter of the church, especially since the French Revolution.
But more to the point of today's feast, which not by accident lands in the 15 days.
Our lady supports the chair of St. Peter, the authority of Christ's vicar on earth.
And the popes have ever since looked with great fondness upon lords.
Many of them visiting its grotto in person.
Pope Pius XII even wrote an encyclical letter on lures.
So how sweet to Pope Pius IX and all who love the papacy must have been the message.
I am the immaculate conception coming from the grotto of lures on March 25th, 1858, some four years after the infallible papal definition of 1854.
So, lords and the papacy are intimately connected and meant to be so by heaven's timing of the 15 days.
In other words, heaven put the chair of St. Peter within the 15 days on purpose.
Now, given this connection and the struggle we find ourselves in today, let us turn to our Lady of Lords to pray for the upcoming Conclave.
that will begin and possibly finish within the 15 days originally asked of Saint Bernadette.
Furthermore, as we have spoken of time and time again, the revolution that was rising up and being countered by lords back in the 1858 is still with us.
And sad to say, I know this is scary, but it has entered the church herself and infected many
even at the highest levels.
For example, Charles Darwin, he released his first book on evolution only a year or so after lures.
Now, many even inside the church believe in evolution.
Now, keep in mind that this revolution is essentially a man-centered system.
It likes to start with man, base all upon man,
and to end with man, and even to treat man as if that's all there is, that's the revolution, revolting against God in his established order, attacking divine revelation.
It is human-centered and it's humanistic.
Now, the father of modern philosophy is Renee Descartes, who in seeking a foundation for such thinking entered upon a path of doubt,
He wanted to doubt everything until he could find something he could no longer doubt, which he did find in the fact that he was doubting.
Since he could not doubt that he was in fact doubting, he concluded, I think, therefore I am.
He then proceeded to work backwards to found all reality on man's ability to think.
Rationalism was born.
And so was doubting all things divine.
And so was making man the center of everything to make man the source and the summit of all things.
With that in mind, let's consider these amazing words of St. Peter's successor, Pope Paul VI in 1968.
See, if St. Peter is not helping us understand these times,
through Paul VI.
Here is what he said to an address to the Lombard College, December 7, 1968.
The Church finds herself in an hour of anxiety, a disturbed period of self-criticism, or what would even be better called auto-destruction.
It is an acute and complicated upheaval which nobody could have expected
after the council.
It is almost as if the church were attacking herself.
Ah, thank you, Paul VI.
The doubting and criticism of Descartes has entered into the church and is attacking everything, doubting everything, including the papacy itself.
Saint Peter, it seems to me as speaking here, he is saying the revolution has entered the church.
Are we listening?
We'll consider another quote of Pope Paul that he gave in 1972.
This was at St. Peter's Basilica on June 29, the feast of St. Peter and Paul.
Everyone knows at least part of this quote.
We have the impression, the Pope said, that through some cracks in the wall, the smoke of Satan has entered the temple of God.
It is doubt.
It is
Doubt.
Hello, Renee Descartes.
It is doubt, uncertainty, questioning, dissatisfaction, confrontation.
We thought that after the Council of Day of Sunshine, would have done for the history of the Church.
What dawned instead was a day of clouds and storms, of darkness, of searching and uncertainties.
Pope Paul VI.
1972.
Now, what does this say about our year of faith?
What does this say about all that has been happening since Vatican II?
To me, it's clear.
St. Peter is saying, through Paul VI, the revolution has entered inside the church, and now she is in a passion.
And now, even the last stronghold, the very chair of St. Peter seems to be under heavy fire.
Now this brings me to my final point.
Some are saying that the Holy Ghost guides conclaves and the choice of the Pope.
If we consider the history of the papacy, we will quickly discover many good Popes, but also sad to say many bad and dissolute ones as well.
The bad ones clearly militate against the notion that the Pope is chosen by the instrumentality of the Holy Ghost.
we get the leaders we deserve.
And if we make sacrifices and pray and call upon our Lady of Lords, we can merit a good Pope.
Even if a bad Pope is chosen, God forbid, we can also merit for him graces of office that perhaps he will not easily resist.
Let us therefore not fall into the air that all popes are of the Holy Ghost.
But rather, suffer and pray that the Holy Ghost will intervene to give us a holy and good pope to pump out the revolutionary waters in the church and lead us safely out of these tempestuous revolutionary seas.
At times like this, it seems to me we can identify very easily with St. Bernadette.
The world around us is questioning, doubting all that is true, attacking the holy office of the papacy, the chair of St. Peter and making the faithful life of the Catholics in the world difficult.
We should take notice of what she did.
Oh, St. Bernadette, what did you do?
She blamed herself.
She withheld judgment.
I don't know why the lady didn't come.
It must be my fault.
She trusted.
She came back the next day and prayed the rosary.
She persevered.
What was the result?
Our lady came back to the grotto.
A spring was found.
Millions of people had been healed through the spring in some way or other.
Glory has been added to God and His Holy Church.
And Bernadette, remaining faithful, received a crown.
and is beautifully incorrupt to this very day.
In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen.
We hope that you enjoyed this sermon entitled The Feast of the Chair of St. Peter and Our Lady of Lords.
Our next sermon for today is entitled Peter, Vicar of Christ.
peace be to you.
Thus far in these lessons we have stressed the idea that the church is the mystical body of Christ.
It is visible in as much as it has members that walk this earth.
It is invisible in as much as Christ is the invisible head and the life of it is the Holy Spirit.
We also said that this church is a society, an assembly,
a cahal related in some way to the assembly and cahal of the Old Testament.
Through this church, God is diffusing the merits of Calvary.
Now we come to a point where we wish to show that Peter holds the primacy.
Primacy not only of honor,
but also of jurisdiction over the church.
In other words, He is the vicar of Christ.
He is the first pontiff.
He is the first pope.
It is very strange that those who admit it with Scripture, that the church is the mystical body of Christ who will not also admit ahead
After all, how are we to know, for example, that the body exists in this earth?
It's very easy to know that Christ was walking this earth simply because men saw him.
Well, after his ascension, how would men know his mystical body and where his life was to be found?
Our Blessed Lord did not leave these questions unanswered, and so he gave a sign
that we would know his body and the sign was the sign of all living things.
How does any life manifest itself?
Does not the unity of life manifest itself through the head, which is the source of the movements of the body?
The head is the symbol, is it not?
Of the unity of life.
Lakes and arms can be amputated.
without destroying the unity of life.
But cut off the head and it's the end of life.
In the social order, does not every club or group or society or nation have a head or a president or a king?
And even in the psychological order, it is natural almost.
that there be a kind of a consciousness of headship.
In an infant, for example, there's a great complexity and crisscrossing of activities, vegetative, emotional and mechanical and vital and so forth.
But as the child develops, gradually it reaches a point where it sums up all of its organic activities in the personal pronoun,
It comes to a consciousness of its unity in the center of reference, namely the primacy of personality.
Now if our blessed Lord established a life here on earth, even though he didn't name ahead, it would eventually in the psychological order have to become conscious of its head.
But our blessed Lord, as we know,
as we are going to show, did name a head.
This happened, as we saw in the last lesson, at Caesarea Philippi.
It was a half-pagan city.
And in that city, our blessed Lord considered the three possible forms of church government.
How would his mystical body be covered?
There might be three ways.
One, the democratic, two, the aristocratic, and three, the theocratic.
The democratic would be one in which a majority vote decides, in which everyone has an entirely different opinion of what is to be, to be the truth and to be the law.
The aristocratic is an appeal not so much to
the majority or to the masses, but rather an appeal to an aristocracy, a house of Parliament, a Senate, a Congress, a House of Lords, whatever it be.
And the Theocratic is one in which God chooses one man as he chose Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Moses,
and guides and protects and directs this man.
Our Blessed Lord did not establish his church without considering all of these possible forms of government.
So he began with a democratic and his question was, who do men say the son of man is?
Notice men.
In other words, if you took a poll
If you took a vote, what is the general opinion concerning me?
What answer did our Lord get?
The answer was, some say you're John the Baptist and others Elias and other Jeremiah's and others, one of the prophets.
No unity, no certitude,
Leave the government of the church to individual interpretation, and you get contrary and contradictory views.
Eternal truth who said that not a single IODA was teaching to be changed could ever accept a government of that kind in which men could not agree, and so he had for it nothing but the withering scorn of a silence.
Next, he appeals to the aristocratic.
whom do you say that I am?
You, by twelve apostles, you may are a stocker say.
You, my chosen group, who am I?
There was no answer.
First of all, there had been no head appointed as their spokesman.
Furthermore, some of them had doubt.
Thomas certainly had doubts.
The Judas was not very certain of his financial sagacity.
Philip was troubled about relations to the Heavenly Father.
Though our blessed Lord could not build his church upon an aristocracy alone.
At this point, there is one man
without the consent of the others who steps forward.
And he speaks in the name of all, and he gives the right answer.
His answer is, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Here is one man.
With divine illumination, as we shall see, who speaks in the name of all, who makes the confession of the divinity of Christ, who affirms faith in him, who is to be chosen as the head of his mystical body.
This is the theocratic form of church government.
Before we go into the text, what objections could there be?
Well, one objection that is urged against this particular text is that our Blessed Lord did not build his church on Peter.
He built it upon Peter's confession of faith and his divinity.
Now this is not true because our Blessed Lord was addressing Peter in the second person singular as we shall seek.
Our Lord said to Peter, Blessed are thou.
I will give to thee whatsoever thou shalt vine."
Here there's no confession of faith.
Blessed Lord is speaking in the second person singular to a man whose name he changed from Simon to Rock.
Coming back now to our text.
Let us go through briefly some of the words.
Our blessed Lord said to Simon Peter, blessed art thou.
We have heard those words before.
They were once spoken by an archangel at the Annunciation to Mary.
And the archangel approached Mary to ask her if she would give God a human nature
with which he could redeem the world.
The angel saluted her, blessed art thou.
Why blessed?
Because she was to be given the divine privilege of motherhood of Christ.
Now, likened to the Annunciation,
Our blessed Lord says to Simon Peter, blessed Artha, as Mary was blessed because she was to be the mother of Christ, the head of the mystical body.
So Peter is blessed because he's to be the vicar of Christ and the visible head of the mystical body.
Next, our blessed Lord said,
Simon Bar Yona, blessed are thou Simon's son of John.
Our Lord is still calling him by his personal name, that is to say his family name.
Our Lord had already given him another name, the name of Kefos and Aramaic, which means rock in the name of Peter in English.
Then our blessed Lord continues.
I propose the confession of divinity, our blessed Lord said to Peter, flesh and blood hath not revealed this to thee.
In other words, you do not know that I am Christ the Son of God by natural instinct or by reason, just as you who are listening to me.
Do not know just by reason alone that Christ is the Son of God.
Your reason gives you motives of credibility.
But there had to be an illumination from above.
Here there's a very special illumination, a Peter, because he recognizes now that Christ is not only the Messiah's, but he's also the son of the Eternal Father.
Remember that all of the apostles were there, it says, Area Philippi.
And yet our blessed Lord,
speaks only to one, and our Lord continues.
And in my turn, I say to thee, to Peter.
Note, this is going to be personal.
Thou art the rock.
Notice the parallel between Peter's confession
and our blessed Lord's transfer of power.
Peter said, Thou art the Christ.
Our Lord answers, Thou art the rock.
Peter confessed the grandeur of Christ.
Christ confesses the grandeur of Peter.
Remember now that Peter's name is rock.
It was a new name.
It was suited to his office.
Now, this word rock does not appear here for the first time in Scripture.
Throughout the Old Testament, God is called rock.
As we are going to see later on, that God is also called keybearer, God is also called shepherd.
Our Blessed Lord, inasmuch as he is the son of God, is the rock of the ages.
Yet he makes Peter a rock.
Look through the Old Testament and you will find instances of how God is called the rock.
Remember that in the book of Exodus and in the book of Numbers, there was a rock that gave forth water.
And Saint Paul later on referring to that says, and the rock that followed them was Christ.
In other words, that rock that Moses struck was a pre-figurement of Christ.
was the eternal rock.
There are 40 references in the Old Testament where God is called a rock.
In the book of Daniel, the Messiah's is called the rock that smashes to dust the statue with the feet of clay.
And our blessed Lord Himself said that those who obeyed His commandments would be likened to a house that was built.
upon a rock.
Now the implication was that here Christ the Son of God, who in the Old Testament in the book of Isaiah, is called the Rock of Israel, that this Christ as the Son of God sustained the old Kaha'u, so Peter
is to sustain the nukahal, the new ecclesia, or the new church as a rock.
In other words, there was a communication of the divine power of being a rock from God to Peter.
When our blessed Lord told Peter that he was to be the rock, that did not mean that God had his rights violated, or that he had abdicated them.
Here's the rock.
But he's the invisible rock.
And Peter is to be made the visible rock of the mystical body.
If a technical reference may be permitted in the Greek of Matthew, where we have the words, now our Peter and upon this rock, I will build my church.
The word for Peter is patros and the word for rock is patra.
In classical literature, for example, in Homer, you find that the word patros means a kind of a small rock that is part of a great and tremendous rock like Gibraltar.
Though our blessed Lord is really saying to Peter, Thou art the true patros of me, the divine patron.
And both are personal.
Christ the Rock was a person, Peter the Rock was a person.
So that as a visible body, the church had Peter as its visible rock foundation.
As an invisible, invisible spiritual reality, the mystical body has Christ in heaven as its spiritual eternal rock.
Next, our blessed Lord said, I will build my church
My ecclesia, my cahara, our Lord did not say, I will build my churches.
The church is his body.
Christ cannot have many bodies.
That would be a physical monstrosity.
So that the whole organic foundation of the mystical body is founded on a single man who is to have divine assistance.
Notice how Lord also said, I will build my church.
This same word, Bill, is used in the book of Genesis.
In the Latin translation of the Scriptures and the Vulgate, it is exactly the same word that is used to describe how Eve was formed out of Adam and how Christ built his church.
Adam was like an unfinished thing until he was formed.
Though scripture says that Christ was to have his fullness in his bride, the church.
As Eve was built from Adam, so the church was built from the Christ.
Next, our blessed Lord says, the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church.
Now here our Lord is not so much referring to literal gates, but rather to an unseen world.
The word prevail, that is to say evil shall not prevail, means to overpower.
Our blessed Lord therefore assures Peter that his church will be indestructible, indefectable because the gates symbolize power.
It was the place generally
where counselors and men of power in government met.
For example, the book of Genesis says that Lot sat at the gate of Sodom.
The book of Ruth says that Boaz took care of legal matters at the gate of Bethlehem.
So to hell has its gates, its seat, its counsel, its treasury of power.
Now this will always be
opposed to the church, but our blessed Lord says, the gates of hell shall not prevail.
In other words, the church will be indefectable through the ages.
And notice too that this privilege is not given to the person of Simon, but it's given to Peter.
Our blessed Lord said that he will be with his church even under the consummation of the world.
And our Lord at it.
I will give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
Imagine.
Not only is he the foundation stone, but once he's on the inside of this church, he's going to have keys.
Our blessed Lord said, I am the door.
And in the book of the apocalypse, glorified Christ is described as varying keys in the book of the apocalypse states so that none may shut what he opens.
and none may open when he shuts.
But just as the eternal rock made a visible rock, as the good shepherd is going to make Peter the shepherd, so the key bearer, the eternal key bearer, gives him the keys.
In other words, he truly is the vicar of Christ.
Give to thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and then whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth
is bound in heaven.
And whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth is loosed in heaven.
This means that whatever Peter commands or forbids, he does it in the name of Christ.
What a tremendous power!
Earth and heaven become a single force
by the heavens almost seemed to be an echo of earth.
As if God were lending his ears in order to hear what his vicar Peter was saying.
And this power is legislated because he can bind the loose.
It's a power of discipline.
It's a power that will protect him from error.
And there's no limit to it for our blessed Lord said.
Whatsoever, he binds Christ by you.
You are our blessed Lord, promise to confer this power upon Peter, but there were other instances to inscripture where our Lord associated Peter with himself.
One particularly interesting moment is the night of the Last Supper.
All of the apostles were gathered together with our blessed Lord.
And our Lord speaks to Peter and then.
Behold, Satan has claimed power over all of you so that he may sift you as wheat.
Now notice the plural there.
Our Lord is saying power over all of you.
The words of our Lord continue.
But I prayed for thee.
that thy faith may not fail.
When after a while thou hast come back to me, it is for thee to be the support of thy brethren.
Notice our blessed lords that Satan wants all of them.
Now, out of all, for whom does our Lord pray?
Here is not praying for the twelve.
He's praying for Peter alone.
He addresses him in the second person singular,
And he does that because if the foundation stone crumbled, the rest of the edifice would fail.
Our Blessed Lord is also telling Peter that he's going to fail, as he will a few hours later when he will tell the maidservants, I know not the man, but our Lord says that he will come back.
He will come back at Pentecost, and then he will be the support of the 12.
In other words, it is in Peter, the Vicar of Christ, that the apostles or the bishops have their support
and come within the hearing of the prayer of Christ, isolated and separated from Peter as the vicar of Christ, the apostles are weak, and were not to assume that this power was given only to Peter because he was not called Simon then.
Simon indeed dies with Peter lives on Pius and Leo and Benedict another die, but Peter continues under the consummation of the world.
Another instance of how our Lord associated Peter to himself was at the payment of the temple tax.
It is the only time in Scripture where God ever associates the human being with himself under the personal pronoun we.
Just think how proud you were.
And as a child, perhaps your father put his arms around you and said,
We will do this.
Now at the time of the payment of the temple tax, Armlessed Lord told Peter to pay it and he said to pay it for me and for thee.
And then he adds that we may not scandalize.
Here he is making himself one with Peter.
He's associated with a master in a way that no one else can ever be associated.
We Christ and Peter.
That is why all papal encyclicals begin with the word we.
Now, this particular unity that existed between patron, patron, the invisible rock and the visible rock is now carried on
with the clothes of our Lord's public life, rather after the resurrection.
Our Lord is fishing three times.
He says to Peter when he comes to the shore, love a stow me.
And after Peter affirms his love, because there can be no conferring of authority without love.
Our blessed Lord, each time says to him, feed my lambs, tend my shearlings,
feed my sheep.
Hear the power is conferred by the good shepherd to Peter the shepherd.
The flock is one because the shepherd is one and one man is at the head of the flock.
In other words, the church is to be made up of bishops and priests and people.
As on earth, our blessed Lord associated with himself, apostles, disciples and people,
And Peter is to be the head of them all.
And the words that our blessed Lord used in Greek were bosskind.
Poim and I, in other words, you have the order, you have the jurisdiction, you have the authority.
In order to feed my lambs, to feed my sheep, I am transferring my power as shepherd to you.
And our Lord told Peter how he would die, that he would be crucified.
And Peter went to Rome where he was crucified.
He said that he was not worthy to be crucified in the manner that our blessed Lord was.
So he asked that he be crucified upside down.
How fitting that was, or the eternal rock had told him that he was to be the rock.
And after all, where is the foundation rock to be placed?
If not close to the ground.
and so the rock was laid.
And that rock came the foundation stone of the church.
And from that day to this, the church has a shepherd, a rock, a keeper.
a Pontius, a bridge builder between earth and heaven, a vicar of Christ, a pope, a holy father, the one head for the one body, that is how we know where the church is.
as they said in the first century.
We'll be Patris, Eby Aclasia.
Wherever Peter is, there is the church.
God bless.
We hope that you enjoyed this sermon entitled Peter, Vicar of Christ.
Our final sermon for today is entitled United in Saint Peter.
Praise be Jesus and Mary.
The Feast of the Chair of Saint Peter, which we celebrate today, is a celebration in reality of the unity of the Catholic Church.
A unity that Christ established on Saint Peter and his successors.
So the chair of Saint Peter then, or the cathedra, is the symbol of his teaching authority, his magisterium, which Saint Peter and his successors received from Christ himself.
Pope Saint Paul VI in his encyclical Ecclesium Suum writes this.
Take away the sovereign pontiff, and the Catholic Church would no longer be Catholic.
Moreover, without the supreme, effective, and authoritative pastoral office of Peter, the unity of Christ Church would collapse.
It would be vain to look for other principles of unity in place of the true one established by Christ himself.
Words of Pope Paul VI.
So the unity of the church is Christ's idea.
And having Saint Peter and his successors
as the principle of this unity is Christ's idea.
On this rock, I will build my church.
That's the way our Lord wanted it.
And so it's our faith in Christ that leads us to give what's called the ascent of faith to the Magisterium
of the Pope, his teaching authority, especially when through the carerism of infallibility, he solemnly defines the truth from the chair, ex-cathedra.
So we're called to give an ascent of faith to his teaching authority, but not only in the dogmatic constitution
doom and gensium paragraph 25, tells us that we also owe a religious ascent to the teachings of authentic magisterium, even when they are not infallible.
Let me quote that paragraph for you.
It says this, this religious submission of mind and will
must be shown in a special way to the authentic magisterium of the Roman pontiff, even when he is not speaking ex-cathedra.
That is, it must be shown in such a way that his supreme magisterium is acknowledged with reverence.
The judgments made by him are sincerely adhered to
according to his manifest mind and will.
And his mind and will in the matter may be known either from the character of the documents, from his frequent repetition of the same doctrine, or from his manner of speaking.
That's Luman-Gensian paragraph 25.
But what is the reason that we are called to give this so-called religious ascent?
the congregation of the doctrine of the faith in a document called Donon Veritatis explains why.
This is what it says.
Because, I quote, divine assistance is also given in a particular way to the Roman pontiff as pastor of the church when exercising ordinary magisterium even should this not issue
an infallible decision, or in a definitive pronouncement, but in the proposal of some teaching, which leads to a better understanding of revelation, in matters of faith and morals, and to moral directives derived from such teaching.
So our faith in Christ leads us to give both the ascent of faith
and religious ascent to the Holy Father when he teaches on faith in morals.
That is the way Christ wanted it.
So on this piece of the chair of Saint Peter, let us renew in faith our effective and effective union with the Holy Father, the principle of unity
of the whole Catholic Church.
There's also prayer and sacrifice for the Pope, as our Lady of Fatima asked.
So we may live our faith as God wanted it.
Omnes Competro Adiesum Bermariam, all with Peter to Jesus through Mary.
Praise be Jesus and Mary.
This has been sermons for everyday living from the station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app
under sermons for everyday living.
Have a blessed day.